# Portfolio
Follow my personal recount of my path through learning cyber security.
<!--
Hx Xs Ewsxsc: 12 -W.S.
-->
Date Format DD/MM/YYYY

Entry 1 17/11/2025

So I am on day 13 of my journey, and this was the day I decided to add a GitHub personal journal to my journey. This repository acts as my portfolio to demonstrate my commitment to learning the craft and work that goes into being in the world of Cyber and ultimately Cyber Security. So far to date I have started a number of projects none of which are finished, but here they are in list format.

- **Beginning** I started researching what cybersecuity is, starting out by talking to a friend of mine who works in the industry. He acts as a project manager for cybersecurity team and has many years of experience in the field. This was a great starting point, as now I have someone invested in hearing about my journey. I will be sharing this Git account with him soon. For anonymity I will call him Fay. Hi Fay 👋! After speaking with Fay, I had a list of priorities and a lot of dopamine. 
- **Research** At my day job I get a lot of time to myself where I can listen to music, audiobooks, podcasts, or videos. So I put on a playlist I created on Youtube and listened to every cyber-related history video essay I could find. Learning about various different malware or ransomware attacks, such as WannaCry, NotPetya, or Stuxnet. I learned of Edward Snowden and the NSA. Other hacking groups like FancyBear and Lazarus. Listened to one of the founders of Anonymous talk publicly about the organization's creation and ideology. Recently I've been listening to some interviews with Ryan Montegomery and Rachel Tobac. Among other video essays that I have listened to and heard about, these were the big names that stuck with me and got me hooked on learning more.
- **Progress** From here I wanted to do/learn something I so made a new email account. After doing some research and deciding I no longer wanted to have a Google Gmail account, I found my way to both MailFence and Proton. Utilizing these new accounts, I began porting my old emails and linked accounts to the various email accounts I now had based on necessity and security. I also started using the Brave browser and turned towards Libre Office for my document work. Of course there wasn't a stubborn part of me that declared "ZERO GOOGLE get that away from me." But I did have a new mind for additional security where possible. I also started to use more than just my 5 standard passwords. Moving to my own personally randomly generated passwords and saving them in a secure place to keep my accounts more secure. I may streamline this eventually, but for now every new account has a unique password.
- **Learning** My learning path for getting certificates and the required knowledge to get into the field started with TryHackMe. On THM I have done only 10 rooms in a single path; however I have tried to stay consistent and keep learning every day, whether it be doing a course on THM or some other project related to this new world I have found myself in.
- **Linux** I went out and bought a Jumpdrive to download a Linux distro onto so I could get started and separate my main (primarily gaming) setup from my new cyber setup. So after downloading Ubuntu and mounting it on the jumpdrive, I played around inside linux and noticed it was somewhat choppy. I attributed that to overused ports on my PC so I began the process of a dual boot. Now my PC can start in Win11 by default or Ubuntu from the BIOS. Nice! To further my understanding of Linux, I made an account on LabEx and started learning how the terminal works.
- **Python** Early on when I was looking into new career paths, I originally thought I would go and be a developer working as a software developer. However, upon talking to my tech industry contacts they all suggested I would fit better into Cyber. While talking to these people I had been learning Python in my free time. I still plan on learning Python to help me with the work I will eventually be doing. So far not many projects in Python, but I did make a silly Mad Lib within a Python script. A decent process that helped to develop my understanding of the Python programming language.
- **Community** I joined a few Discord groups to stay connected to the community and talk with others about our journeys. I also intend on continuing my Youtube history lessons, as well as possibly attending DEFCON next year with a friend who may be interested in going.
- **Documentation** Remembering what Fay told me from the beginning, that I should document my progress, I made this GitHub account as my most recent addition to my learning process. Looking forward to updating it as time goes by.
- **Next Steps** With the drive and passion to get to a better place in life with a better career, I have a lot to do. However, my first steps are going to be to continue learning the Linux terminal, Python programming language, THM Paths, and to continue listening to more media. Soon I'd like to start the Google IT Cert and Google Cyber Cert.
- **Future** I know I am going to need to get my CompTIA+ Certification and, to get working on some CTFs in both THM and Hack The Box. Looking forward to testing my skills... Once I develop them ¯\(ツ)/¯.

That's pretty much all I've got for now. See you in the next update.

 81ip
